The issue that I have right now with the application,
which will be labeled Exercise 7,
is to update the todo list when a new todo is added via websocket.
So,
the way that the Vue application works right now is it appears that
todo items are added to the database in real-time,
but really what happens is we add them to an array,
the array gets rendered in our interface,
and then we make a request to the server which
actually persists it to the database.
So,
the challenge that I would like to pose for all of you is to
create a socket connection between the todo client and the
server and whenever a new todo is added,
and right now we can do it for an add,
if you want to try to implement it for an update too that's totally fine,
but we won't immediately add the todo list item to the
array associated with the Vue component.
We'll actually make a request to the server,
save it in the database like we are right now,
and then when the todo list item has been successfully saved,
we will emit an event from the server to the client containing the
saved todo list item which then will be added to the array and then
represented in our user interface.
So it'll be only when the todo list item has actually been persisted
that it'll be displayed in the user interface,
which hopefully should be pretty close to real-time.
So after lunch, we're going to take a crack at that.
And, yeah, that should be a good time and give you a chance to dig into Socket.
IO a little bit.
The challenge here is going to be how you structure your Socket.
IO code.
So,
right here we kind of have everything in the same file and
access to the HTTP server and all that jazz.
But generally speaking,
that's not the way you're going to want to handle it in your application.
So, much as we have this webapp.
js file, which kind of creates a reusable Express application,
we're probably going to want to create another file which manages Socket.
IO related data.
As a little bit of a spoiler,
probably what you're going to want to do is in a module,
create an object which exports one function,
which is a connection handler, which will be used by the socket server.
So if I bring up this simple example,
you probably want to create a module which has this function,
which will be called every time a new socket connects to the application.
That module, for the sake of argument,
should probably create like a global registry of sockets of all the
sockets that are currently connected to the system,
and then that module should probably have another function
which will allow the controllers to emit messages to all the
currently connected sockets.
So, you're going to be creating a CommonJS module that exports two functions.
One is going to handle incoming socket connections,
and the other is going to be used by controllers to emit
messages to the currently connected sockets.
And again, because that's a decent amount of code,
I thought I would at least prime the pump a little bit with what I
think would probably be a reasonable implementation.
So, we'll break now for lunch,
and then we'll take another half hour on top of that to tackle the challenge,
and then we'll come back and look at the solution at 1:30 along with the Vue.
js solution.
I've got a quick question.
Yeah.
It seems like the whole Socket.
IO kind of template is much cleaner than messaging, than a RESTful interface.
I mean, what's the tradeoff between them?
I know that Socket.
IO is a lot faster.
Between a RESTful interface and a socket connection?
I mean it's kind of about the kind of client that you expect to connect.
It's possible to do like authentication with websocket
connections if that's something you want to do.
But yeah, other than exposing an API that can be used by all kinds of clients,
like not every kind of client can create a socket
connection to your server and like create read,
update, delete operations that way,
having a RESTful interface is probably more accessible.
But yeah,
you could certainly architect your system in such a way where most of your
average crud operations happen over a websocket if you want.
If you're controlling both ends of the pipe, sockets would be efficient?
Potentially, yeah.
It's certainly is faster,
but the support for like authentication especially is a little
more fiddly with websockets than it is with REST.
With REST,
you have cookies where you can store authentication tokens and by default,
you don't get that with a websocket connection.
Like there are other modules you can use to get that type of functionality,
but there's no reason why you couldn't implement a lot of your services over websockets if you wanted to.